# Cycle of the Endless Horizon

A discipline of enlightenment that is at once well-known and yet rarely practiced, largely a consequence of its sheer length, with many non-adherents under the mistaken impression that it is in fact infinite. The practice instructed by the school is a very thorough comprehension of the interaction between the Physical and Aetheric Realms, focusing on the connection between the material entities of the Physical and the Primal Shapes of the deep Aether, ultimately seeking to allow the practitioner to manifest and even embody these concepts in their purest and most perfect form. While this study is very time-consuming and difficult, the willingness of the manuals to spend dozens of pages thoroughly explaining their koans and riddles is considered refreshingly straightforward compared to other disciplines.

Book CCCXXVI: Noise and shine are simply energies lost to the unpleasantries of the Physical Realm. Perfection in art, craft, and being would waste nothing, and so would be silent and dun. In the pursuit of perfection, then, one must ask: is the world we see absent of perfect things because they cannot exist; or are we lost in a world of perfection, only perceiving what is as imperfect as ourselves? -- Mastery of the Phantom's Passage
 
Book LCVIII: Thus, the reality we perceive is nought but a convenient lie we tell ourselves to avoid the true nature we are not prepared to comprehend. To progress further in our search for Truth requires us to become an architect of this false illusion rather than a passive observer. -- Deceptive Skill;