As an immortal Spirit, a Wild Soul can persist just fine in the absence of a physical body, though if theirs is destroyed or they are forced to abandon it for whatever reason they will have to reform a new one before they can take any meaningful action. This is typically a slow process, though the Wild Soul can accelerate it at the cost of severely exhausting themselves.

Regardless, direct violence is almost never a viable means of removing a Wild Soul as a threat or obstacle. Even if they exhaust themselves with multiple rebirths in succession, they will eventually reform naturally, so long as the place or thing they personify still exists. If this place is destroyed or changed so much that the ideas embodied by the Wild Soul no longer relate to it, they must find a new, similar, unoccupied locale before their body is destroyed or become disconnected from the Physical and are inexorably drawn towards the Primal Shape from which they gain their magic and power. This is not death, and they may return if the changes are undone or if a similar place or thing forms a “new” Soul, but barring the most destructive and esoteric magic, it is the closest such a being can come to death.

A less extreme and destructive way of handling dangerous or otherwise troublesome Wild Souls is by taking advantage of the means of their origin. The Intimacies and understanding of a Wild Soul are partially shaped by the beliefs of those whose thoughts helped form it, and while these cease to have a strong effect after its “birth”, a large enough change in such thinking may “brainwash” the Wild Soul during one of its rebirths, causing major personality changes to be more in-line with what said beliefs expect them to be.