Most Unbound are unfathomably old, by the standards of mortals, and ancient even by the standards of other Spirits. Unbound are almost never found on the planes of their birth, and not simply due to some innate sense of wanderlust. Rather, most were forced to move on by outliving their homelands, and often the ground it stood on, and sometimes even the stars in their sky. Not to say they necessarily remember all of these countless years, though their minds are usually sharper than the Free in this regard, but for many the experience profoundly warps their perspective on time and their ability to relate to shorter-lived beings. An Unbound that has found a role in a mortal empire of one hundred generations might themselves see the time commitment the same way a mortal perceives a lucky run at a friendly card game, to be stepped away from just as casually.

This is not to say the Unbound are completely untroubled by need and want. While an incarnated Unbound is free from the burdens of the flesh and fully capable of sustaining their own magical power, this lasts only while they are incarnated. Once they abandon their body, the only magic they have left is what they carry with them, bound up in knots of Anima within their Aetheric form. This is finite, and cannot be renewed until they are once again incarnate. Being creatures *of* magic, exhausting this reserve will reduce them to a similar state as a coma, known as Hollowing. Used carefully, most Unbound carry enough with them to stay active for centuries between incarnations. This is, of course, virtually no time at all to an Unbound's perspective, and they will have to be in quite dire straits to abandon an incarnation without a plan for having their next one Called.

While an Unbound's creation blesses them with knowledge and magical power along the themes of their origin, unlike the Chained or the Autarchs they are free to make their own choices of that nature. While they consume and work with Anima similar to their own Incarnate Aspect, and it heavily codes their instincts, both of these limitations are things that Unbound often learn to overcome with experience. Oxymoronic as it might seem, for example, pacifist Valkyries are hardly unheard of, being perfectly willing to drink only of the violence that seeks them out, or even decline and educate those who would try on the philosophies of nonviolence. Forcing the matter is obviously *incredibly* unwise; as dangerous as a normal Valkyrie can be, the amount of experience required for an avatar of bloodthirst to be quenched is not something most would survive witnessing firsthand.

When not directly engaging with mortal affairs, Unbound fill in the "skilled labor" or "middle class" of the myriad Celestial hierarchies, acting in the employ or patronage of Divinities and Autarchs. This is usually, but not always, relevant labor to their Incarnate Aspect, such as a Demiurge artisan or a Mercurial courier. This can be a long-term, loyal relationship, as such beings are long-lived enough for even a Unbound's slow-flowing view of time to grow attached, or it can be entirely mercenary. Even a strictly mercenary affair can run for centuries or miliennia, of course.