Aetherics, formally, is the scientific study of the Aetheric Sea and the laws that govern it. Colloquially, it also refers to the use of magic through practices purely derived from such study, eschewing tools such as the Primal Shapes or other constructs of Anima as inefficient crutches. In doing so, the prospective Aetherist opens a channel within their soul, using it as a bridge between the Aetheric Sea and the Physical Realm and allowing their mind to tap the flow of power as a water wheel taps a waterfall. The mage then turns these siphoned energies to practical effect, as expressed through the most fundamental, indivisible actions magic can perform: Creation and Destruction, the motion of Energy and Force, the twisting of Space and Time, and the manipulation of the Shaow and Aetheric Seas themselves.

These actions are a universal constant, the tools of the gods themselves from a time before Anima, and this constancy and simplicity makes them useful. Energy does not have a thousand subtle aspects as does the Flame, and attuning to it does not require mighty and terrible breakthroughs or ages of contemplation. It simply *is*, and to one who has opened the gates of the mind and soul to wield it, as self-evident in its existence as gravity.

However, those who wield these powers are not the gods of their creation, and the simplicity of the tools belies the complexity of the world they exist in and are still underlying. The sheer complexity of expressing a real-world task in such simple terms means Aetheric magics are usually blunt-force instruments, chained by algorithms and geometries only as complex as the caster can understand. This combined with the sheer *quanitiy* of blunt force they can apply gives them a checkered reputation for accidental or intentional destruction, especially on planes where the Aetheric studies are less organized and less common. In more academically-inclined worlds, however, the consistency and reliability of such magic makes it extremely common, and in many such places Aetheric theory, if not initiation, is as necessary a skill as literacy or arithmetic.