While the simplicity of the fundamental actions means every Aethericist has at least some limited knowledge and experience with all eight, the complexity of using them in practice means it is difficult and likely dangerous to "improvise" a use for ones outside the mage's area of expertise. The traditional way of circumventing this issue is through Spells.

Spells are treated as a specialty Gear Asset for use with Aetheric Actions. Unless the character has all of the relevant Talents to improvise the spell, they are always Defined Cabability, and must use Aether for the Secondary Ability. Additionally, there are consequences for using a Spell of greater capability than the caster is capable of on their own, as the caster takes [Overflow](Overflow.md).

A Spell can take any forms, depending on the Tradition chosen by the mage, the magical tradition they are part of, and their own personal preferences. At their core, however, each spell is simply math and instructions; they have no power without the mage to channel it, and they impart no guidance or ability to a mage who is not intimately familiar with the spell's method of representing that core meaning. Because of this, many Aethericists prefer to write their own spells so they can be certain of how they work. In places with a formal academic tradition and a firmly-defined "language" for magic, it does become more common to trade in spells professionally, though, as mages have more confidence in the system and libraries than their own work.

When acquiring a Spell, the Tradition spell is designed for will have to be specified. This can be changed at a later time similarly to making other modifications to an Asset.