The practitioner of a Primalist Art seeks to establish a connection to the Primal Shapes within the furthest depths of the Aetheric Sea, and through this connection they may manifest all that which composes the Shape.

Each Shape is the flawless, holistic essence of a concept, of which the Physical entities bearing its name and image are merely pale reflections. To attune to a Primal Shape is not simply to tap into a well of knowledge or power, but of understanding. The primalist does not need to understand the inner workings of their magic any more than they need to know the inner workings of their arm; they simply act, and the magic acts with them. The Shape knows how to manifest itself. This makes a Primalist extremely flexible in their element, but the difficulty of attuning to a Shape in the first place, and the differing directions multiple attunements can pull the practitioner, means even the mightiest Primalists rarely have more than a handful of elements to wield.

Each Major Talent represents a new Shape the character has attuned to, and when learning it, they must choose whether they are focusing on its incarnate form, or idealized concepts. The Incarnate Form grants powerful, but often Overt abilities that are unambiguously and obviously magical in nature, such as controlling the elements, shapeshifting into animals, or commanding the weather. The Idealized Concept grants more subtle abilities that empower the user in other ways, such as amplifying their strength or speed, suppressing the sound of their footsteps, or steeling their resolve. A character can repurchase a Major Talent to gain both options.

Minor Talents represent individual pieces of each Shape, or smaller and more esoteric Shapes the character can attune to by branching off their connection to a related Shape. They each have a power for both of the above options, but the character can only use an option if they are also invoking a Major Talent that has that choice.