When initiating a Scene, the player may choose an Escalation Level. The Escalation Level increases the scale of the Scene, and higher levels of Escalation make it both easier and necessary to perform high-Tier Actions, as well as make it easier to learn the events of the Scene.

In an Escalated Scene, Goals may be upgraded for half the normal cost, and if they are being upgraded by the use of a Major Talent or sinilar effect, the player may instead upgrade it twice for the cost of 2 Agency or 2 Impact. The total number of Tiers gained through these discounts cannot exceed the Escalation level. Similarly, Actions may be upgraded for the same discounted prices (4 Dice, 4 Power, or 2 Successes) or doubly-upgraded with a Major Talent or similar effect for the cost of 2 additional Dice or Power, or 1 Success. However, Goals cannot be established any lower in Tier than the Escalation Level, and Actions automatically fail if their final Tier is lower than the Escalation Level, including Move Actions (but not Miscellaneous Actions) that normally do not require rolls.

Escalation also increases the size of the map for a Scene, and correspondingly affects the ranges in play. For every two levels, the map expands such that the whole map of a less-Escalated Scene could fit into a single Zone, and the range of all effects is moved one degree closer to Touch. An Overwatch-range effect retains its normal range if its source is a Talent or an Asset of equal or greater Tier than the Escalation Level.