A Project is a game structure meant to allow characters to accomplish tasks too large to be managed in a single Action or even Scene by subdividing it into smaller tasks. A Project can be started during a Scene with an Initiate Action, or added to the Storyboard as a Scene Goal. If a Project is started during a Scene, it must be completed during that Scene or it is abandoned.

A completed Project is equivalent to a single Action 2 Tiers higher than the Actions or Scene Goals used to advance it, and with Successes and Power equal to the Difficulty and Resistance of those Actions. The player chooses the Difficulty, Resistance, and Tier when starting the Project, as well as the Redundancy.

A Project requires four successful Progress Actions/Scenes to complete. If an Action/Scene is of a Tier 1 higher than required (after Tiers are spent), it counts double. An Action/Scene 2 Tiers higher may simply complete the Project in one try, being equivalent to the final result of the Project in the first place.

Additionally the extra labor of a Project allows more leeway in methods than individual Actions or Scenes would permit, at the cost of taking more time or skill. If a Project's result would usually be either Overt or an Offense, this can be removed by raising the Project's Tier. If the result is something that couldn't plausibly *not* be Overt or Offensive, then the character instead takes steps to prevent it from being traced back to them. While all characters still learn about the event as normal, the Project owner's responsibility is hidden unless investigated normally, and their DT is raised by 1 vs. such Discover/Investigate attempts.

Conversely, the player can introduce shortcuts in otherwise cleaner operations to save time. If a Project would not be Overt or an Offense, it may be made so to reduce the difficulty by a Tier.