The Free are the most mutable of all Spirits, the shortest in memory, and the ones most easily capable of shifting up and down in power. As they have no defining, immutable aspect as other Spirits do, they are no less susceptible to persuasion and influence than mortals are, and often the easiest with which to make accords. 

The Free can survive just fine and even still act in complete absence of any physical body, though doing so is distracting from the more fundamental task of wrangling their now-more-loosely-bound memories.

If a Free Soul is overstressed by the task of self-sustaining, having strongly divergent Major Intimacies or Influences, or simply exhaustion, they are at risk of a Schism, in which their Spark multiplies and scatters, taking bits of their memory and personality with it. This produces multiple weaker Free Souls of a lesser Tier than the original (Ephemerals, if already Tier 0), each of which may take different Major and Minor Talents the original knew. It is possible to fully restore the original by getting all of the individual souls to cooperate and reunify; however, frequently the divided souls all inherited a degree of the original’s individuality, making this a challenging task.

Finally, as above, Free Souls can “merge”, assuming the combined soul is capable of binding the combined pool of memories without suffering an immediate schism. This is a strictly voluntary matter (in as much as vast power levels the Free can span can stretch the applicability of “voluntary”), which outside of vast power imbalances, will tend to create a “gestalt” rather than have one personality be clearly dominant.