Picture a person who can only remember what they have written down. Now picture that person a stack of all the writing they have ever done, chasing down the papers that have blown away in the breeze with one hand, while the other clutches tightly to the handful of pages that describe those things most important, such as how to write, how to read, how to chase after runaway pages, and why the pages are important at all.

Replace the pages with wisps of Anima, and the above is an adequate metaphor for the perpetual task the Free have for maintaining their identity and soul. Without a unifying element such as the Primal Shape of the Wild or the Incarnate Aspect of the Unbound, the Free Soul is only kept intact by the active use of magic to bind it in shape. As the Free, like all other Souls bearing a Spark, constantly produces new Anima with each passing thought, they must constantly either redo their binding to account for new memories, or revisit which are worth keeping.

Most Free choose to bind to a Physical body, even if they can live without one, simply because having the solid anchor simplifies this eternal workload, enables them to remember more, and lets them focus on actually doing things other than self-sustenance. What this body is, of course, varies more than any other sort of Spirit, and can just as easily be a thing they found as much as it can be a thing they made, or even a thing made for them. Depending on the whims and power of the Free, the body they inhabit can be anything from rocks, sticks, and leaves, possessed animals, dead animals, dolls, utensils, corpses, trees, ponds, landscape features, highly convincing mortal disguises, poorly convincing mortal disguises, elemental manifestations, and creatures from fairy tales, the latter being a particular favorite.

It is rare to find Free in small groups; the vast majority are found in Glades, where the sheer mass of Free pulls the Aetheric Wind inwards and helps stabilize their collective souls, and thought and memory can pass nearly intact from one soul discarding it to another absorbing it, blurring lines of identity and experience. Those that choose to leave these communities usually do so alone, driven by the individualism compelling them to leave in the first place.

Similarly, it is rare to find Free that are apathetic towards mortals. To them, mortals billow with fresh Anima as strongly as far more powerful Spirits due to the strength of the Mortal Coil, and this either scares or tantalizes the Free, depending on how concerned they are with being swept up in the haze of emotion.