A Defining Purpose is similar to a Major Intimacy, but far more compelling. As with Major Intimacies, a Defining Purpose immediately upgrades any relevant Influence rolls or Reactions to them. However, when invoked on other rolls, the Defining Purpose adds a +4 Floating Bonus instead of +2. Additionally, if it is invoked on an Influence Action against the character, they cannot invoke any other Intimacies in Reaction, unless they can also invoke the Defining Purpose. The opposite applies as well; if the Defining Purpose is relevant to Opposing an Influence Action, it *must* be invoked, and the Influence Action cannot benefit from any other Intimacies unless it also can invoke the Defining Purpose.

While it *is* possible for such a being to exercise restraint and pass up opportunities for instant gratification of this Purpose for the benefit of longer plans, doing so is a profound exercise of willpower. Voluntarily initiating or joining a Scene that does not have Goals relevant to their Purpose costs 1 SPA in exertion, and if they end a Scene in which they were presented with an opportunity to pursue their Defining Purpose without having made a good-faith attempt at any, they take 1 SPA in damage. If they end the Act with enough Spotlight to initiate a new Scene, they must initiate a Scene with relevant Goals, or take 1 SPA for each Scene they could initiate.

Finally, if a character is driven to a reckless decision by their Defining Purpose, they do not gain an Ascension Token or Eternity Mark if they would have taken SPA damage for *not* taking it, as above. They are still eligible if their urges have already been placated during the Scene or during Goal Creation, however.