The acting player describes a number of Goals their character intends to accomplish during the Scene, up to a maximum equal to their total Agency, then may invest both Agency and Impact across those Goals. Each Goal must have at least one Agency and 1 Impact, and the player is not required to spend all of either. If the player chose an Ascended Ability to use when starting the Scene, increase the Tier of the Goal by 1 for each such Ability.

Each goal is represented mechanically by a Obstacle, Crisis, or Minion that must be overcome to achieve the Goal in question, with the difficulty or threat imposed scaling with the Agency, Impact, and Tier of the Goal.

Design Notes:
Each Goal is meant to be a non-trivial challenge. If all participating characters invest their full Agency and Impact into Goals, the expectation is that approximately half of the Agency/Impact will be counted as successfully completed Goals by the end of the Scene, assuming the Scene does not drag on through transitions. While pulling off a better performance than this through the use of good tactics, expense of Assets or Narrative-level metacurrencies, or just good luck is acceptable and laudable, if the players are consistently completing all or nearly all of their Goals it should be considered if the positioning of Goals or aggressiveness/intelligence of Minions is too generous, particularly if the same cannot be said for Adversaries' Goals.

Everything going right, all of the time is rarely a trait of the dramatic tales the system is intended to enable, after all. Of course, if you wish for a more escapist or fantastical feel, the above advice can be ignored.