# Disclaimer
Eternal Light is a generic ruleset intended to handle conflict between larger-than-life characters and let the story be driven by both that conflict and the consequences of the characters' actions. It functions best when there are active antagonists who will interfere with the heroes of their own accord, and when either they or the PCs have grand ambitions they can plot and scheme towards. It is also relatively rules-light for the type of story it is intended to tell. This means it is not a good fit for many stories a game might wish to tell.
## Conflict
A core assumption of Eternal Light is that the Adversaries are there to provide drama and pressure, regardless of how cooperative the dice are to the players, or how carefully the players use their resources to minimize the influence of dice. A game concept that is purely Man vs. Nature or Man vs. Society will not have this complicating factor, and at minimum will require much more difficult challenges to still provide meaningful drama. Otherwise it is much to easy to remove the dice from the equation and prevent any Crises from getting out of hand.
## Larger Than Life
Heroes and especially Adversaries in Eternal Light are meant to be powerful figures that have to balance their actions with the potential consequences of using their full might. A character that does not have the capability to easily push into higher-Tier Actions will not trigger Spillover and thus trigger Crises that will add difficulty gameplay and tension to the story.

In particular, most characters are expected to have at least one Expanded Ability, which is only situationally useful and use-restricted even when it is applicable, but produces far stronger effects, such as magical spells, incredible wealth, or an arsenal of gadgets. Attempting to engineer a situation in which a character's special ability is both useful and available, while their rival's is *not*, is an intended layer of game strategy. While characters having a minimal level of omnicompetence is reasonable (if not mandatory), characters should be imbalanced between different situations and roles.
## Consequences
Spillover and the Crises or Obstacles generated by it is the primary driver of complication in Eternal Light. A story where the direct approach to solving a problem should (or possibly even *can*) go smoothly is not a good fit and should be done with a lighter system.
## Grand Ambition
The intended in-universe role of Adversaries is meant to be significant: Lords, generals, executives, tyrants, and monsters. Thwarting them, or succeeding at the Heroes' own objectives despite the challenge their rivals pose, is similarly intended to be difficult and complicated tasks that will *necessarily* affect the surrounding world in ways the Heroes can't fully plan for or control. This is what is represented by Spillover and other consequences, and is important to sustaining tension and drama. For a game concerning more down-to-earth protagonists, consider other systems such as Forged in the Dark.
## Rules-Light
Eternal Light is a trimmed down version of the still work-in-progress Eternity system, and most rules pertaining to such features as tactical combat, detailed social interaction, or advanced Asset crafting have been deliberately excluded to keep the game slimmer and faster to learn and play. While Eternal Light is meant to be a *strategic* game, in that players should be forced to make decisions about which Crisis or Adversary is the most critical to address first, whether a given Crisis is worth spending Plot Armor to cancel, etc. it is *not* meant to be a tactical game in which map positioning, distance, weapon features, power combos, etc. matter. For this gameplay more rigorous systems such as Fabula Ultima, Lancer, etc. are recommended instead (Or you can bother me for Eternity playtest builds, or wait for me to succumb to the Good Idea Fairy again and drop everything to build Eternal Fight as a separate trimdown system.)