If a character takes damage but the player doesn't want to spend Plot Armor to minimize it, they may instead suffer a Dramatic Loss. In lieu of taking the damage, they may lose access to a Major Talent or downgrade an Ability for a length of time dependent on the track that would be damaged. If the damage source is another character, that character may choose the talent to be discarded or Ability to be reduced, out of any they have Discovered (within narrative reason). If an Ability it downgraded, the character loses a Tier on all rolls using that Ability, and automatically fails if this would reduce the Tier below 0. 

Each Ability or Talent can only be affected once. If they would be affected again, the duration is instead increased to the next shrtest level. If it is already at the highest level, it cannot be affected again and the player will either have to pay Plot Armor or affect a different Ability/Talent. If *every* Ability is already affected at the NPA-equivalent level, they are defeated, even if they have NPA remaining.

A character may end a single Loss condition during a Recovery of the appropriate level, but skips their normal Plot Armor Recovery to do so.

For APA damage, the loss continues until ended by a Recovery Action or end-of-Round Recovery. If the character Exits the Scene still suffering from Loss, they may choose one to Recover, and then the remainder are raised to SPA-equivalent.  
For SPA damage, the loss continues until ended by a Recovery Scene or end-of-Act Recovery. If the character is still afflicted by Loss at the end of the Story, they may choose one to Recover, and then the remainder are raised to NPA-equivalent.  
For NPA damage, the loss is permanent. If the character relearns the lost Talent, they make progress at double the normal pace. They may reacquire full use of an Ability in this manner as if it were a Major Talent.  

Design Notes:  
While Plot Armor is functionally the "hit points" of a character for a game perspective, Loss is the actual, in-universe health and damage taken by the character, and it is what Plot Armor is intended to spent *avoiding*. Any instance of Loss is something that has tangibily affected the character, such as getting the wind knocked out of them and hampering them when they move and fight being an Action-level Loss to their Physical Ability, or a merchant prince's trade empire being completely destroyed or commandeered being a Narrative-level loss of a Wealth Talent.

Loss escalating at the end of its normal window (Scenes for Action-level, Stories for Scene-level) is a deliberate choice to keep Plot Armor as the more "expendable" form of HP, as each instance of Loss can erase a sizeable chunk of Plot Armor damage. While the decision to do so should be a tactically interesting choice, Loss is not meant to be ablative armor for covering a run to the exits, and this rule is intended to discourage such use.

Conversely, the above should not influence players who do not intend for their characters to reach the end of the Scene/Act, and the repeated use of Loss to soak damage and extend a sacrifice play, deathmatch, or last stand is intended and meant to add an element of drama and tactical attrition to the showdown.